docs/version/version_hist.rst, before:

***************
Version History
***************

Version 0.9.2
=============

Format Styles that inherit from ``StyleName`` such as ``ooodev.format.calc.style.Cell``.

Added style options to ``from ooodev.utils.forms.Forms`` module methods.

Version 0.9.1
=============

Added :ref:`ns_theme` that access LibreOffice theme properties.

Added ``Info.get_office_theme()`` That gets the current LibreOffice theme name.

Added overloads to several Calc methods to allow styles to be applied when setting sheet values.


Version 0.9.0
=============

Added :ref:`ns_format` module with hundreds of new classes for applying styles and formatting to documents and sheets.

Added :ref:`ns_units` module that contains classes for many of the LibreOffice units such as ``mm`` units, ``px`` units and ``pt`` units (and more).

Renamed method ``GUI.show_memu_bar()`` to ``GUI.show_menu_bar()``

Fixed issue with ``Calc.get_sheet_names()`` when overload with no args was used.

Rename ``CellObj.col_info`` to ``CellObj.col_obj``

Rename ``CellObj.row_info`` to ``CellObj.row_obj``

All events now can have key value pairs of data added or removed

Added ``Calc.get_safe_rng_str()`` method.

Added ``Info.is_uno()`` method.

Added ``Write.style()`` method.

Added ``Write.get_cursor()`` overload.

Added ``Write.append(cursor: XTextCursor, text: str, styles: Iterable[StyleObj])`` overload.

Added ``Write.style_left(cursor: XTextCursor, pos: int, styles: Iterable[StyleObj])`` overload.

Added ``Write.style_prev_paragraph(cursor: XTextCursor, styles: Iterable[StyleObj])`` overload.

Added ``Write.append_line(cursor: XTextCursor, text: str, styles: Iterable[StyleObj])`` overload.

Added ``Write.append_para(cursor: XTextCursor, text: str, styles: Iterable[StyleObj])`` overload.

Added ``Chart2.style_background()`` Method.

Added ``Chart2.style_wall()`` Method.

Added ``Chart2.style_data_point()`` Method.

Version 0.8.6
=============

Added Styles namespace.

Extended Cell Objects with focus on ``CellValues`` Class.

Added overload to ``GUI.set_visible()``

Added overload to ``GUI.set_visible()``

Added overload to ``Calc.get_sheet_names()``

Added overload to ``Calc.set_sheet_name()``

Changed ``Calc.get_sheet(doc: XSpreadsheetDocument, index: int)`` to ``Calcget_sheet(doc: XSpreadsheetDocument, idx: int)``.
``index`` will still work but is not documented.

Changed ``Calc.remove_sheet(doc: XSpreadsheetDocument, index: int)`` to ``Calc.remove_sheet(doc: XSpreadsheetDocument, idx: int)``
``index`` will still work but is not documented.

Version 0.8.5
=============

Fix for Some ``Calc`` related method getting a new doc with the existing doc was expected.

Version 0.8.4
=============

Added methods, ``Calc.merge_cells()``, ``Calc.unmerge_cells()``, and ``Calc.is_merged_cells()``

Version 0.8.3
=============

Many new Overloads in ``Calc`` module for range objects.

Several enhancements for range objects.

Version 0.8.2
=============

Added ``Calc.is_single_column_range()``.

Added ``Calc.is_single_row_range()``.

Added ``Calc.get_range_size()``

Added ``Calc.get_range_obj()``

Added ``Calc.get_selected_range()``

Added ``Calc.get_selected_cell()``

Many enhancements for working with sheet ranges.

Version 0.8.1
=============

``Chart2.insert_chart()`` all parameters made optional, added ``chart_name`` parameter.

Added ``Chart2.remove_chart()``.

Added ``Calc.set_selected_addr()``.

Updated ``Angle`` to accept any integer value, positive or negative.

Version 0.8.0
=============

Added ``Calc.get_col_first_used_index()`` method.

Added ``Calc.get_col_last_used_index()`` method.

Added ``Calc.get_row_first_used_index()`` method.

Added ``Calc.get_row_last_used_index()`` method.

Added overloads to ``Calc.get_col()``.

Added overloads to ``Calc.get_row()``.

``Calc.get_col()`` now returns an empty list like ``Calc.get_row()`` if no values are found.
In previous version it it returned ``None`` When no values were found.

``Calc.extract_col()`` now returns an empty list if no values are found.
In previous version it it returned ``None`` When no values were found.

Version 0.7.1
=============

Minor updates to ``chart2_types`` module.

Version 0.7.0
=============

Added ``Lo.loader_current``. Now after ``Lo.load_office()`` is called the ``Lo.loader_current`` property will contain the same loader that is returned by ``Lo.load_office()``

All methods that are using ``loader`` now have a overload to make ``loader`` optional.

``Calc.open_doc()`` has new overloads. Now if a file is not passed to open then a new spreadsheet document is returned.

``Write.open_doc()`` has new overloads. Now if a file is not passed to open then a new Writer document is returned.

Version 0.6.10
==============

Now ``Lo.load_load()`` has extra options that allow for turning on or off of verbose via the loader.
Going forward verbose is off by default.

Added overload to ``Calc.get_sheet()``

Update ``Props.show_props()`` to support extra formatting.

Fix bug in ``Calc.get_function_names()``

Removed unnecessary events from

.. cssclass:: ul-list

    - ``Calc.print_addresses()``
    - ``Calc.print_array()``
    - ``Calc.print_cell_address()``
    - ``Calc.print_fun_arguments()``
    - ``Calc.print_function_info()``
    - ``Calc.print_head_foot.print_address``
    - ``Calc.print_head_foot``

Version 0.6.9
=============

Added ``FileIO.uri_absolute()``

Added overload to ``props.get()``.

``FileIO.uri_to_path()`` now raises ``ConvertPathError`` if unable to convert.

Added an enum lookup option to ``Info.get_paths()``.

Added ``utils.Gallery`` module.

Version 0.6.8
=============

Added ``utils.adapter`` namespace and classes.

Version 0.6.7
=============

Add new methods ``convert_1d_to_2d``, ``get_smallest_str``, ``get_largest_str``, ``get_smallest_int``, ``get_largest_int`` to ``TableHelper`` Class.

Added overload method ``Lo.print_table(name: str, table: Table, format_opt: FormatterTable)``

Updated ``Lo.print_names()`` to print output in a table format.

Version 0.6.6
=============

Add overload to ``Calc.convert_to_floats``

Add ``formatters`` module for formatting console output.

Added overload method ``Calc.print_array(vals: Table, format_opt: FormatterTable)``

Version 0.6.5
=============

Added overload to ``FileIo.make_directory`` that handles creating directory from file path.

Fix for ``FileIo.url_to_path`` on windows sometimes not converting correctly.

Other ``FileIo`` Minor updates.

Fix bug in ``Chart2.set_template`` when ``diagram_name`` was passed as string.

Fix bug in ``Draw.warns_position`` when no Slide size is available.

Renamed ``Calc.get_range_str`` args from ``start_col``, ``start_row``, ``end_col``, ``end_row`` to ``col_start``, ``row_start``, ``col_end``, ``row_end`` respectively.
Change is backwards compatible.

Renamed ``Calc.get_cell_range`` args from ``start_col``, ``start_row``, ``end_col``, ``end_row`` to ``col_start``, ``row_start``, ``col_end``, ``row_end`` respectively.
Change is backwards compatible.

Version 0.6.4
=============

Fix for ``Draw.report_pos_size``. Now handles when a shape does not have a ``Name`` property an other errors.

Version 0.6.3
=============

Overloads for ``GUI.get_window_handle()``

Removed unused ``*titles`` arg from ``Draw.add_dispatch_shape()`` method.

Removed unused ``*titles`` arg from ``Draw.create_dispatch_shape()`` method.

``GUI.get_title_bar()`` method now returns empty string when not able to get title bar text.

Version 0.6.2
=============

Rename private enum ``_LayoutKind`` to public ``LayoutKind`` to make available for public use.

Added new Fast Lookup methods to ``Props`` class.

New Exceptions ``PropertyGeneralError``

Version 0.6.1
=============

Added ``Draw.add_dispatch_shape()`` method.

Added ``Draw.create_dispatch_shape()`` method.

Added Dispatch Lookup ``ShapeDispatchKind`` Enum.

Added None to ``GraphicArrowStyleKind`` Enum.

Added classes ``WindowTitle`` and ``DialogTitle`` for working with GUI packages.

Version 0.6.0
=============

Breaking changes.

``Write.ControlCharacter`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.text.control_character.ControlCharacterEnum``.
Now ``ControlCharacterEnum`` must be used instead of ``Write.ControlCharacter``.
``ControlCharacterEnum`` can be imported from ``Write``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.write import Write, ControlCharacterEnum``

``Write.DictionaryType`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.linguistic2.dictionary_type.DictionaryType``.
Now ``DictionaryType`` must be used instead of ``Write.DictionaryType``.
``DictionaryType`` can be imported from ``Write``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.write import Write, DictionaryType``

``Calc.CellFlags`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.sheet.cell_flags.CellFlagsEnum``.
Now ``CellFlagsEnum`` must be used instead of ``Calc.CellFlags``.
``CellFlagsEnum`` can be imported from ``Calc``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.calc import Calc, CellFlagsEnum``

``Calc.GeneralFunction`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.sheet.general_function.GeneralFunction``.
Now ``GeneralFunction`` must be used instead of ``Calc.GeneralFunction``.
``GeneralFunction`` can be imported from ``Calc``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.calc import Calc, GeneralFunction``

``Calc.SolverConstraintOperator`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.sheet.solver_constraint_operator.SolverConstraintOperator``.
Now ``SolverConstraintOperator`` must be used instead of ``Calc.SolverConstraintOperator``.
``SolverConstraintOperator`` can be imported from ``Calc``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.calc import Calc, SolverConstraintOperator``


``Calc.FillDateMode`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.sheet.fill_date_mode.FillDateMode``.
Now ``FillDateMode`` must be used instead of ``Calc.FillDateMode``.
``FillDateMode`` can be imported from ``Calc``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.calc import Calc, FillDateMode``

Version 0.5.3
=============

``Lo.dispatch_cmd`` Now returns the result of the dispatch command if any.
Formerly a ``bool`` was returned.

``Lo.dispatch_cmd`` Now raises ``DispatchError`` if an error occurs.

Version 0.5.2
=============

Chart Samples and tests

Misc code tweaks.

Version 0.5.1
=============

Chart 2 Samples and tests.

Version 0.5.0
=============

New modules
 - Draw
 - Chart
 - Chart2

Added ``utils.dispatch`` which as several new classes for looking up dispatch values.

Misc bug fixes.

Version 0.4.19
==============

Fix bug in setup.py

Version 0.4.17
==============

Update to Write:

- new method ``split_paragraph_into_sentences``
- new overloads for ``print_meaning``
- new overloads for ``print_services_info``
- new overloads for ``proof_sentence``
- new overloads for ``spell_sentence``
- new overloads for ``spell_word``
- ``load_spell_checker`` now load spell checker from ``com.sun.star.linguistic2.SpellChecker``


Version 0.4.16
==============

Fixes for Write spell checking


Version 0.4.15
==============

Update Graphic methods to move away from ``GraphicURL``

Other minor bug fixes.

Version 0.4.14
==============

Minor fix in ``Write.set_page_numbers``

Version 0.4.13
==============

Fix for  ``Write.add_text_frame()`` events.

Version 0.4.12
==============

Add defaults for cfg in case config.json is not available.

Version 0.4.11
==============

Fix bug in ``Lo.print_names()``

Remove internal events from some print functions that should not have had them.

Fix bug that did copy config.json during setup.

Version 0.4.10
==============

Add new event_source property to internal event classes.

Version 0.4.9
=============

| Added a Bridge Connector :py:attr:`.Lo.bridge`
| See also: :ref:`ch04_bridge_stop`
| See example: `Office Window Monitor <https://github.com/Amourspirit/python-ooouno-ex/tree/main/ex/auto/general/odev_monitor>`_

Added Session class for registering and importing.
See example: `Shared Library Access <https://github.com/Amourspirit/python-ooouno-ex/tree/main/ex/auto/general/odev_share_lib>`_

Version 0.4.8
=============

New listeners in ooodev.listeners namespace

Fix For Lo.XSCRIPTCONTEXT

Version 0.4.7
=============

Added ``minimize()``, ``maximize()`` and ``activate()`` methods to :py:class:`~.gui.GUI` class.

Version 0.4.6
=============

Updates and fixes for :py:class:`~.utils.info.Info` class.


Version 0.4.5
=============

Added :py:class:`~.break_context.BreakContext` class.

Version 0.4.4
=============

Bug fix reading document properties.

Version 0.4.2
=============

Fix bug in windows connections

Version 0.4.1
=============

Fix bug in :py:class:`~.utils.info.Info`.
Some methods were expecting string but got Path object.

Version 0.4.0
=============

New more flexable and robust way of connecting to office.

This update change :py:meth:`.Lo.load_office` method

Paths used internally now automatically resolve to absolute paths.

Version 0.3.0
=============

Write module released

Version 0.2.0
=============

Initial release with full support for calc.

Commit message:

Add new style methods to Write

docs/version/version_hist.rst, after:

***************
Version History
***************

Version 0.9.2
=============

Format Styles that inherit from ``StyleName`` such as ``ooodev.format.calc.style.Cell``.

Added style options to ``from ooodev.utils.forms.Forms`` module methods.

Added ``Write.create_style_para()`` that creates new paragraph styles and adds the them to the document paragraph styles.

Added ``Write.create_style_char()`` that creates new character styles and adds the them to the document character styles.

Version 0.9.1
=============

Added :ref:`ns_theme` that access LibreOffice theme properties.

Added ``Info.get_office_theme()`` That gets the current LibreOffice theme name.

Added overloads to several Calc methods to allow styles to be applied when setting sheet values.


Version 0.9.0
=============

Added :ref:`ns_format` module with hundreds of new classes for applying styles and formatting to documents and sheets.

Added :ref:`ns_units` module that contains classes for many of the LibreOffice units such as ``mm`` units, ``px`` units and ``pt`` units (and more).

Renamed method ``GUI.show_memu_bar()`` to ``GUI.show_menu_bar()``

Fixed issue with ``Calc.get_sheet_names()`` when overload with no args was used.

Rename ``CellObj.col_info`` to ``CellObj.col_obj``

Rename ``CellObj.row_info`` to ``CellObj.row_obj``

All events now can have key value pairs of data added or removed

Added ``Calc.get_safe_rng_str()`` method.

Added ``Info.is_uno()`` method.

Added ``Write.style()`` method.

Added ``Write.get_cursor()`` overload.

Added ``Write.append(cursor: XTextCursor, text: str, styles: Iterable[StyleObj])`` overload.

Added ``Write.style_left(cursor: XTextCursor, pos: int, styles: Iterable[StyleObj])`` overload.

Added ``Write.style_prev_paragraph(cursor: XTextCursor, styles: Iterable[StyleObj])`` overload.

Added ``Write.append_line(cursor: XTextCursor, text: str, styles: Iterable[StyleObj])`` overload.

Added ``Write.append_para(cursor: XTextCursor, text: str, styles: Iterable[StyleObj])`` overload.

Added ``Chart2.style_background()`` Method.

Added ``Chart2.style_wall()`` Method.

Added ``Chart2.style_data_point()`` Method.

Version 0.8.6
=============

Added Styles namespace.

Extended Cell Objects with focus on ``CellValues`` Class.

Added overload to ``GUI.set_visible()``

Added overload to ``GUI.set_visible()``

Added overload to ``Calc.get_sheet_names()``

Added overload to ``Calc.set_sheet_name()``

Changed ``Calc.get_sheet(doc: XSpreadsheetDocument, index: int)`` to ``Calcget_sheet(doc: XSpreadsheetDocument, idx: int)``.
``index`` will still work but is not documented.

Changed ``Calc.remove_sheet(doc: XSpreadsheetDocument, index: int)`` to ``Calc.remove_sheet(doc: XSpreadsheetDocument, idx: int)``
``index`` will still work but is not documented.

Version 0.8.5
=============

Fix for Some ``Calc`` related method getting a new doc with the existing doc was expected.

Version 0.8.4
=============

Added methods, ``Calc.merge_cells()``, ``Calc.unmerge_cells()``, and ``Calc.is_merged_cells()``

Version 0.8.3
=============

Many new Overloads in ``Calc`` module for range objects.

Several enhancements for range objects.

Version 0.8.2
=============

Added ``Calc.is_single_column_range()``.

Added ``Calc.is_single_row_range()``.

Added ``Calc.get_range_size()``

Added ``Calc.get_range_obj()``

Added ``Calc.get_selected_range()``

Added ``Calc.get_selected_cell()``

Many enhancements for working with sheet ranges.

Version 0.8.1
=============

``Chart2.insert_chart()`` all parameters made optional, added ``chart_name`` parameter.

Added ``Chart2.remove_chart()``.

Added ``Calc.set_selected_addr()``.

Updated ``Angle`` to accept any integer value, positive or negative.

Version 0.8.0
=============

Added ``Calc.get_col_first_used_index()`` method.

Added ``Calc.get_col_last_used_index()`` method.

Added ``Calc.get_row_first_used_index()`` method.

Added ``Calc.get_row_last_used_index()`` method.

Added overloads to ``Calc.get_col()``.

Added overloads to ``Calc.get_row()``.

``Calc.get_col()`` now returns an empty list like ``Calc.get_row()`` if no values are found.
In previous version it it returned ``None`` When no values were found.

``Calc.extract_col()`` now returns an empty list if no values are found.
In previous version it it returned ``None`` When no values were found.

Version 0.7.1
=============

Minor updates to ``chart2_types`` module.

Version 0.7.0
=============

Added ``Lo.loader_current``. Now after ``Lo.load_office()`` is called the ``Lo.loader_current`` property will contain the same loader that is returned by ``Lo.load_office()``

All methods that are using ``loader`` now have a overload to make ``loader`` optional.

``Calc.open_doc()`` has new overloads. Now if a file is not passed to open then a new spreadsheet document is returned.

``Write.open_doc()`` has new overloads. Now if a file is not passed to open then a new Writer document is returned.

Version 0.6.10
==============

Now ``Lo.load_load()`` has extra options that allow for turning on or off of verbose via the loader.
Going forward verbose is off by default.

Added overload to ``Calc.get_sheet()``

Update ``Props.show_props()`` to support extra formatting.

Fix bug in ``Calc.get_function_names()``

Removed unnecessary events from

.. cssclass:: ul-list

    - ``Calc.print_addresses()``
    - ``Calc.print_array()``
    - ``Calc.print_cell_address()``
    - ``Calc.print_fun_arguments()``
    - ``Calc.print_function_info()``
    - ``Calc.print_head_foot.print_address``
    - ``Calc.print_head_foot``

Version 0.6.9
=============

Added ``FileIO.uri_absolute()``

Added overload to ``props.get()``.

``FileIO.uri_to_path()`` now raises ``ConvertPathError`` if unable to convert.

Added an enum lookup option to ``Info.get_paths()``.

Added ``utils.Gallery`` module.

Version 0.6.8
=============

Added ``utils.adapter`` namespace and classes.

Version 0.6.7
=============

Add new methods ``convert_1d_to_2d``, ``get_smallest_str``, ``get_largest_str``, ``get_smallest_int``, ``get_largest_int`` to ``TableHelper`` Class.

Added overload method ``Lo.print_table(name: str, table: Table, format_opt: FormatterTable)``

Updated ``Lo.print_names()`` to print output in a table format.

Version 0.6.6
=============

Add overload to ``Calc.convert_to_floats``

Add ``formatters`` module for formatting console output.

Added overload method ``Calc.print_array(vals: Table, format_opt: FormatterTable)``

Version 0.6.5
=============

Added overload to ``FileIo.make_directory`` that handles creating directory from file path.

Fix for ``FileIo.url_to_path`` on windows sometimes not converting correctly.

Other ``FileIo`` Minor updates.

Fix bug in ``Chart2.set_template`` when ``diagram_name`` was passed as string.

Fix bug in ``Draw.warns_position`` when no Slide size is available.

Renamed ``Calc.get_range_str`` args from ``start_col``, ``start_row``, ``end_col``, ``end_row`` to ``col_start``, ``row_start``, ``col_end``, ``row_end`` respectively.
Change is backwards compatible.

Renamed ``Calc.get_cell_range`` args from ``start_col``, ``start_row``, ``end_col``, ``end_row`` to ``col_start``, ``row_start``, ``col_end``, ``row_end`` respectively.
Change is backwards compatible.

Version 0.6.4
=============

Fix for ``Draw.report_pos_size``. Now handles when a shape does not have a ``Name`` property an other errors.

Version 0.6.3
=============

Overloads for ``GUI.get_window_handle()``

Removed unused ``*titles`` arg from ``Draw.add_dispatch_shape()`` method.

Removed unused ``*titles`` arg from ``Draw.create_dispatch_shape()`` method.

``GUI.get_title_bar()`` method now returns empty string when not able to get title bar text.

Version 0.6.2
=============

Rename private enum ``_LayoutKind`` to public ``LayoutKind`` to make available for public use.

Added new Fast Lookup methods to ``Props`` class.

New Exceptions ``PropertyGeneralError``

Version 0.6.1
=============

Added ``Draw.add_dispatch_shape()`` method.

Added ``Draw.create_dispatch_shape()`` method.

Added Dispatch Lookup ``ShapeDispatchKind`` Enum.

Added None to ``GraphicArrowStyleKind`` Enum.

Added classes ``WindowTitle`` and ``DialogTitle`` for working with GUI packages.

Version 0.6.0
=============

Breaking changes.

``Write.ControlCharacter`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.text.control_character.ControlCharacterEnum``.
Now ``ControlCharacterEnum`` must be used instead of ``Write.ControlCharacter``.
``ControlCharacterEnum`` can be imported from ``Write``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.write import Write, ControlCharacterEnum``

``Write.DictionaryType`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.linguistic2.dictionary_type.DictionaryType``.
Now ``DictionaryType`` must be used instead of ``Write.DictionaryType``.
``DictionaryType`` can be imported from ``Write``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.write import Write, DictionaryType``

``Calc.CellFlags`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.sheet.cell_flags.CellFlagsEnum``.
Now ``CellFlagsEnum`` must be used instead of ``Calc.CellFlags``.
``CellFlagsEnum`` can be imported from ``Calc``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.calc import Calc, CellFlagsEnum``

``Calc.GeneralFunction`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.sheet.general_function.GeneralFunction``.
Now ``GeneralFunction`` must be used instead of ``Calc.GeneralFunction``.
``GeneralFunction`` can be imported from ``Calc``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.calc import Calc, GeneralFunction``

``Calc.SolverConstraintOperator`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.sheet.solver_constraint_operator.SolverConstraintOperator``.
Now ``SolverConstraintOperator`` must be used instead of ``Calc.SolverConstraintOperator``.
``SolverConstraintOperator`` can be imported from ``Calc``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.calc import Calc, SolverConstraintOperator``


``Calc.FillDateMode`` was an alias of ``ooo.dyn.sheet.fill_date_mode.FillDateMode``.
Now ``FillDateMode`` must be used instead of ``Calc.FillDateMode``.
``FillDateMode`` can be imported from ``Calc``.
:abbreviation:`e.g.` ``from ooodev.office.calc import Calc, FillDateMode``

Version 0.5.3
=============

``Lo.dispatch_cmd`` Now returns the result of the dispatch command if any.
Formerly a ``bool`` was returned.

``Lo.dispatch_cmd`` Now raises ``DispatchError`` if an error occurs.

Version 0.5.2
=============

Chart Samples and tests

Misc code tweaks.

Version 0.5.1
=============

Chart 2 Samples and tests.

Version 0.5.0
=============

New modules
 - Draw
 - Chart
 - Chart2

Added ``utils.dispatch`` which as several new classes for looking up dispatch values.

Misc bug fixes.

Version 0.4.19
==============

Fix bug in setup.py

Version 0.4.17
==============

Update to Write:

- new method ``split_paragraph_into_sentences``
- new overloads for ``print_meaning``
- new overloads for ``print_services_info``
- new overloads for ``proof_sentence``
- new overloads for ``spell_sentence``
- new overloads for ``spell_word``
- ``load_spell_checker`` now load spell checker from ``com.sun.star.linguistic2.SpellChecker``


Version 0.4.16
==============

Fixes for Write spell checking


Version 0.4.15
==============

Update Graphic methods to move away from ``GraphicURL``

Other minor bug fixes.

Version 0.4.14
==============

Minor fix in ``Write.set_page_numbers``

Version 0.4.13
==============

Fix for  ``Write.add_text_frame()`` events.

Version 0.4.12
==============

Add defaults for cfg in case config.json is not available.

Version 0.4.11
==============

Fix bug in ``Lo.print_names()``

Remove internal events from some print functions that should not have had them.

Fix bug that did copy config.json during setup.

Version 0.4.10
==============

Add new event_source property to internal event classes.

Version 0.4.9
=============

| Added a Bridge Connector :py:attr:`.Lo.bridge`
| See also: :ref:`ch04_bridge_stop`
| See example: `Office Window Monitor <https://github.com/Amourspirit/python-ooouno-ex/tree/main/ex/auto/general/odev_monitor>`_

Added Session class for registering and importing.
See example: `Shared Library Access <https://github.com/Amourspirit/python-ooouno-ex/tree/main/ex/auto/general/odev_share_lib>`_

Version 0.4.8
=============

New listeners in ooodev.listeners namespace

Fix For Lo.XSCRIPTCONTEXT

Version 0.4.7
=============

Added ``minimize()``, ``maximize()`` and ``activate()`` methods to :py:class:`~.gui.GUI` class.

Version 0.4.6
=============

Updates and fixes for :py:class:`~.utils.info.Info` class.


Version 0.4.5
=============

Added :py:class:`~.break_context.BreakContext` class.

Version 0.4.4
=============

Bug fix reading document properties.

Version 0.4.2
=============

Fix bug in windows connections

Version 0.4.1
=============

Fix bug in :py:class:`~.utils.info.Info`.
Some methods were expecting string but got Path object.

Version 0.4.0
=============

New more flexable and robust way of connecting to office.

This update change :py:meth:`.Lo.load_office` method

Paths used internally now automatically resolve to absolute paths.

Version 0.3.0
=============

Write module released

Version 0.2.0
=============

Initial release with full support for calc.
